Get this video I can go ahead and start a sequel database server for a Mac.
Now if you're running Windows refer to the previous video with this course.
We're actually at I would have to do this on Windows.
And if you're running Linux refer to the next video work through that form and then expect form.
And that's because the steps are different depending on your platform.
All right so we're going to start out by going to stick with dot com
once we get them going to click on My sequel downloads.
They're going to click on this my Sakal community service G.P.O. up here.
The Texas to the download must include community service page.
And if you scroll down and have a look you should find that if you're on a Mac the platform is selected
for you automatically if not just selected from the list of options there.
And then we want to come over here and we're going to choose the biggest download this mac our 6 ten
point twelve deemed geog are we going to use that to install more siecle on a Mac screen that pops up
after doing that and in case you're wondering Oracle actually owned Marsico now which is the reason
that they want you to create an oracle web account.
However that is optional.
So just click on things to start my download.
We don't need to create the account to get the software I going to that am going to post the video on
that stand lighting will come back once its finished enlighting to go through the installation process.
Case I can see the installation now completed some kind of opened the file that was delighted which
is a dmg file which can be used to install double click on the package that'll start the package installer.
We're just going to go through the install the like we would any other software continue continue to
accept the license agreement and agree Constellation into your normal use and I'm Passement I should
say for the user account and then we'll go ahead and actually install my Seacole on this computer.
Right now this will Pop-Pop with his passport as he can see here and we're going to need that in a minute
because we're going to actually change the password.
So take a copy of this password.
It's a tempy one that I have created because it's a bit of an ordeal to actually reset the password
so we don't want to do that without having the password we want to go through and just change it which
will do it temporarily So take a copy of that as I've done click on OK click on close that I can close
down the installer because I've actually completed the installation.
So once you've done that next step is to go into your system preferences and down the bottom you should
have a more Seacole option.
And Dan Heath.
I click on that and this is where you'll start and stop the more Serba.
So I'm going to click on Start Mussey whosever into my password again.
This is the password just to make the user account on the Mac and you can say that it's running now.
So you want to select here whether you want to seek with server to start automatically every time you
start depending on the amount of resources you have.
It might be wise to actually turn that off.
But unchecking says that not to having this database running all the time is purely optional.
It doesn't use a lot of resources so it's entirely up to you.
You just have to remember if you're leading it off you need to come in the system preferences and click
on the START option to start Thomasine called every time that you want to do some development.
In my case I'm going to leave the checkbox on because I'm happy to have that running running automatically
I should say when I retired.
Right I close it down and we know that my sick server is now running.
So the next thing we need now is some more software.
We need the Marsico workbench.
This is a tool that enables us to do a bit of configuration with Marsico.
So you should still be on the screen down here.
That was used to date where we downloaded where we clicked on.
I think it's kind of a hearing select Marsico workbench.
If not you just need to go back to the download section and the different music would come again.
But in my case of body type in some kind of click on that scroll down and it can't it should automatically
select Makower 6.
If you're on a Mac.
If not select it.
And we just want to come over here and download this and say I'm up so we're going to click on No thanks
but I want to create an account.
It's a smaller download such shouldn't take too long.
I'll say that
all I can say is finish downloading.
Same thing we got to open it and we're going to install this
and the process is slightly different.
We've got this Marsico workbench we just kind of drag it into applications and release the mouse copy
itself into applications.
OK and that's done in which he closes down now and we can do our command spites and just talk more as
well.
All right good boy.
As you.
For some reason you can't find it we just need to open up a tap enough that I put up a window rather
a guide to applications music or warpage that's the that we want to type in the application.
Next time you open it it will verify click on Open to say that we're happy to use.
You can say it's available or it was downloaded officially from debit at my school dot com can open
we're now actually running the sequel what pitch.
So the first thing we're going to do now that table we're in here is we're going to actually test out
to see him make sure that I must seek work bench can actually communicate with the sequel Serba.
So we want to make sure that you have started the sequel server like you saw me do earlier in the video
in problem system preferences.
So going to click on this like instance is wanting the password.
So we're going to paste in that password that we copied earlier even the installation sequel.
OK.
And notice when we do that it's come up and said that has expired.
This is where we actually change the password.
I'm going to paste in the old password again and for the new password I'm going to come up with something
that I can remember if I'm really going to be using that as we go through the course
placenta and then we went to enter that new password this time just to make sure we've entered it correctly.
And you option or you can choose to sign the password in the key chain if you like.
I'm not going to do that for security reasons I'm going to talk that each time but it's purely up to
you as to which way you want to go.
Chi-Chi at this point we now actually in the musical workbench and just kind of close down some of these
other windows just too.
So we can actually see things that are a bit clearer and this is the musical webpage.
We can expand that out and make that a bit bigger if we want.
So I can come here and click on server status.
And again I don't have a passport and it'll keep asking for the past but unless you're prepared to sign
with.
So it's up to you as to whether you want to do it.
OK.
And you can say some information about the service and the fact that it's running.
We come over here to use his privileges because what we want to do is create a new user and the idea
is that we are creating a new user that we're going to be using Marsico with.
Because in general it's not a good idea to use that root password for anything.
It's good to keep that sort of play any sort of super administrative tasks that you want.
So they can say in my case see if we just expand this out a little bit we've got the most Secord user
and the route have been defined and created.
Just click on Add an account and we're going to call this one type of user into cash and top.
We've got to password and Standard believe that on the yacht as the default options for an apartment
you need a password for this account and we're going to be using this card in this course so it is a
use and I'm in a possible that you want to remember the passwords Tony
and that is to say it's a weak password.
If you want to avoid that and into a more secure one but try something a bit more secure.
And you want to make sure that the password you are choosing is the same as the user just for security
reasons and you have these other options here for account limits and so on and so forth you generally
don't need to change any of those.
Particularly given that on this machine it's really any development machine.
You know it's no need to worry about too many of these other things.
The main thing is that you've got to use and I can apply and you can say that time with what I use and
I'm you know created what we could do.
There might be a good idea to actually do that limit to host matching.
It would be a good idea to make that local homicidally.
What that means is that the username and password can only be used on this machine that is running like
Ohio.
So if for some reason there was a way for a hacker to get access to the database remotely they wouldn't
be able to use this username and password to access anything remotely that has to actually be on your
machine.
So let's do that.
So I'm trying to like O'Hare's and I've clicked on a there.
You can say near-side that is another time that can click on View and go back to the home.
That brings us back to this select section here.
And you can go into this little mini out and he manage to connections and you can see if we click on
like for instance it gives us some information about the installation and about a fault.
It's given us the port number of three three or six when we've installed the call.
That is the standard port that is used by more cynical and generally for most machines you want need
to change that.
If for some reason you had some sort of a conflict this would be where you change it.
So what we'll do now is we're click on test connection and into my password
and we get this thing he Pallis Darla and I pop up the I successfully made the connection.
We know that Tyreke is looking good.
I click on OK.
McCloy's the last thing we're going to do now is click on this little button to add a new connection
and that's going to be for you a key a new account that we set up in this video.
That connection I'm just kind of called it development use and I won't be rude.
In fact it's going to be Devaney's and her time is when we get into even the default 1:27 dog $0.08
one which essentially is the Likewise hires local machine not the port number has automatically come
across you would change that if for some reason that you'd had the standard port didn't work for you.
You're going to have other options for SSL in advance but I wouldn't need any of those.
We're just going to click on OK and actually what I should have done to get back in there again when
we should have actually tested the connection so I can get into my password.
And you can see we're actually in there now.
So we go back home again like can you get a view when going home.
You can click on there and we can click on Connect that takes us back to the same screen.
Similar options in terms of service status and so so forth because I don't get my password right.
The indication is working correctly when I've got an error.
So in other words we're done the equivalent of testing to make sure that everything sort of working
as it should be working.
So consequently never got back to home again and that from the view menu we've now got two more secret
connections we've got this development on with us.
And now that account is the one that we're going to be using in future videos as we go through this
course.
All right so that's the installation of my Sakal on the Mac in the next video.
We're going to do the installation on a Linux machine.
So if you haven't got a Linux machine and all you don't want to install it you can bypass that video
and go to the one after that.
So I'll see you in the next video.